INTRODUCTION
 
This release of the Protocol 2 (P2) firmware represents a significant improvement over 
the versions that had been posted some time ago to the repository. Most notably, these 
versions should run in a stable fashion on the vast majority, if not all, ANAN series radios.
 
REQUIREMENTS
 
P2 operation REQUIRES a Gigabit Ethernet connection to the radio hardware. As with 
Protocol 1 firmware, the radio hardware will only run at a single Ethernet speed, 
and with P2 that is the Gigabit rate.
 
P2 operation REQUIRES use of P2 compatible client software. At this time the following 
clients are known to be P2 compatible:
 
- Thetis, which is the nominal replacement for PowerSDR mRX PS. It includes most but 
	not all of the features of PowerSDR, and a few features that are new. PowerSDR 
	users will be immediately comfortable and productive with Thetis. Thetis also 
	includes many "under the hood" improvements that should, ultimately, provide 
	more reliable data processing (e.g. fewer audio glitches).
 
- SDR Console, currently in beta and available via Simon Brown's SDR Console online community.
 
- piHPSDR, for the piHPSDR controller hardware.
 
- linHPSDR, for those who prefer Linux.
 
INSTALLATION
 
Migration from Protocol 1 to Protocol 2 can be done using HPSDR Programmer or HPSDR 
Bootloader in the normal fashion. However, once Protocol 2 resides in the hardware, 
successive firmware loads will require the use of either a new P2 compatible programmer 
application or HPSDR Bootloader. Very detailed instructions are available here: 

https://apache-labs.com/community/viewtopic.php?f=18&t=2333
 

KNOWN BUGS & LIMITATIONS
 
This is BETA firmware, with all that BETA status entails. There will certainly be a number 
of problems and issues that crop up. In order to better track these, it is recommended that 
firmware discussions be concentrated here:
 
https://apache-labs.com/community/viewforum.php?f=32
 

And client (Thetis et al) discussions be concentrated here:
 
https://apache-labs.com/community/viewforum.php?f=5
 
Of course you are also welcome to use the legacy HPSDR, Yahoo email reflectors or other 
online resources as you prefer.
 
It should be noted that there is a potential concern for Angelia and Hermes based radios 
(100D, 100B, 100, 10, 10E). With the Media Access Controller (MAC) logic on the FPGA now 
running at Gigabit speeds this causes the power consumption requirements of the FPGA to 
increase. On these SDR cards, overheating of the "F3" positive temperature coefficient 
(PTC) device which protects the 3.3V supply has been reported, with resulting erratic 
operation due to current limitations. It is not yet clear how significant this problem 
may be. The development team has not, as of yet, looked into a possible firmware based 
solution for this problem (e.g. creating 100BASE-T versions of the Protocol 2 FPGA images). 
You may need to consider a hardware modification to fully support Protocol 2 Gigabit 
operation.
 
